>> Estelle Weyl: Okay,
so grid item properties,
we've talked about grid-column-start,
grid-column-end, grid-column,
grid-row-start, grid-row-end, grid-row.
Did we talk about grid-area?
Yes, we did.
That's the shorthand.
Okay.
And then later on we're
gonna have justify-self and
align-self, which are basically
just overrides for
justify-content and
align-content but just for one cell.
So let's actually play with the layout.
So we have a Holy Grail Layout, right?
Do you remember the Holy Grail Layout
when we did with the flexbox?
Well, we can do it with grid as well and
grid is sometimes a more
appropriate way to do it.
So just one other thing before I
go onto that holy grail layout.
The difference basically
between flex box and
grid is, do you see that number 4,
how it spans two lines?
>> Estelle Weyl: There's no
way to do that in Flexbox.
In Flexbox, it basically loads
all the way across on one line.
Both of them,
you can change the order, right?
But when you change the order in Flexbox,
it just basically places it
between the two cells beforehand.
When you change the order in grid,
you're basically saying put this is
exactly here, this is where I want it.
And everything else is
just gonna flow around it.
If you actually place two items in the
exact same location, that's fine in grid.
You can actually place one
thing on top of the other.
So let's go onto the holy grail,
which is basically we wanna display grid,
columns, you're gonna
divide into six parts.
One third is gonna be between the nav and
the aside.
And then the main area or the main
article is gonna be in the middle,
taking up two thirds of it.
And then the rows you want the header
to be 3 ems high, you want
the content to be all the available
space that's left over,
and you want the footer just to
be half the size of the header.
So that's what we're going to do.
>> Estelle Weyl: We're
gonna do a little bit more.
We're gonna basically say the grid-row for
the header goes from the first.
It basically takes up the whole first row.
It goes from the first grid
line to the second grid line.
And the grid-column takes
up all four columns.
The footer is the third row and
goes to the fourth.
And this is what would have
happened anyway, okay?
But then what I had to do
is I had to add the style,
which you never have to do in real life.
Because right here I display
the style block, so it's on the page.
So I want the style to stay at the bottom.
So I basically give this style,
put it on the fourth row, and
make it go all the way across.
So we're gonna actually play with
the style and change the style, why not?
So let's get rid of this and there we go.
So what happened?
The header went from the first grid
line to the second grid line and
from the left-most grid line
to the right-most grid line,
the navigation takes
up all the free space.
No, it doesn't,
it takes up two thirds of it and
each one of these takes up one sixth
because we have 1fr, 4fr, 1fr.
What's 1 + 4 + 1?
I can't do math this early in the morning.
So [INAUDIBLE] count it with their toes.
No, with their fingers, that's better.
Keep your shoes on.
We won't go above ten so
that we don't have to count with our toes.
And then grid-template-rows,
the first one is 3ems.
We could change it to 4ems or
5ems if we want the header to be taller.
The middle part takes all
the available space after that because
the bottom part is just 1.5ems.
So it declared an absolute
length on the footer and
on the header and basically said
that middle area, the article,
nav and aside,
distributed over rows in the middle.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, so header,
footer, style, let's change the style.
>> Estelle Weyl: Because why not?
Let's just make it go from 1 to 3.
>> Estelle Weyl: Why not?
Let's make it go from 4 to 7.
That doesn't make a difference, right?
Because now if we actually added items,
if you want here, one here and one here.
Because it's now going across three rows,
right?
So we're gonna take it from 4/5,
5/6, and 6/7.
But because we don't have any extra cells,
it doesn't matter.
If I did just,
>> Estelle Weyl: 2/3 and 1/3.
>> Estelle Weyl: And
then I'm gonna take the nav and
I'm gonna put it in the same spot.
So the nav and
the style are at the exact same location.
>> Estelle Weyl: You can do that.
Don't, don't but you can.